[Music]
hey welcome to another episode of family
cooking I'm Cassie and BBC good food and
I've been joined by little helper today
what's your name this is my daughter
Florence and we're going to make one of
our favorite family dinners which is
spaghetti and meatballs so to make our
really easy version of spaghetti and
meatballs you're just going to need a
handful of ingredients so we've got some
really nice beef minutes here this has
got about 12 percent fat which would
give you a nice juicy meatball and to
that we're going to add some sausage
meat and then we've got some chopped
tomatoes some spaghetti and garlic I'm
also going to add parsley to the
meatballs so I've lost my sous chef for
a while but I'm going to move on to
making the meatballs so I've added the
sausage meat to the mince beef and to
that I'm going to add our parsley
[Music]
okay so now you just wanted to mix all
of those ingredients together with your
hands squeeze them together really well
until they're nicely incorporated and
then we're gonna roll the mixture into
meatballs about the size of a golf ball
and just arrange them on a lightly oiled
tray so just take small mat meatball and
you can make these as small or as big as
you like just roll them out and arrange
them over your baking tray I'm gonna
make sure you space them out nicely to
try if you can because they'll Brown
much easier if they've got that space
around them so just roll them around and
oil a little bit make sure they're
nicely plated so while I meatballs in
the oven we can get on with cooking the
sauce so I'm just going to add a
tablespoon or two of oil to my pan
popping the garlic that's two cloves of
garlic which I've just crushed down nice
and fine just stir that into the oil
leave it to sizzle for a minute or two
you don't want the garlic to take on any
color just soften slightly and then
we'll add our tins of tomatoes okay so
in with the tomatoes I'm just using
ready chopped ones here but you could
use come to my photograph that we bought
I'm just going season those tomorrow to
get a pinch of salt and a pinch of sugar
so our tomato sauce has been cooking for
about ten minutes now and it's becoming
nice and thick and those tomatoes are
breaking down nicely so I'm just going
to partially cover it with a lid so it
doesn't dry out too much now it's time
to cook the spaghetti in a large pan of
boiling salted water and ease into the
water and you want to cook that for 10
to 12 minutes or until it's just cooked
but still have a little bite to it
okay so our tomato sauce is looking
really lovely and thick and rich now you
can see those tomatoes are really broken
down and with a tomato sauce the longer
and slower you can cook it for the
better really you're just going to get
more and more flavor out of those
tomatoes so cook them nice and long and
slow and I spaghetti is perfect just
check a piece of that so I'm gonna drain
that and just reserve a mugful of the
water in case we need to loosen the
sauce and I've just taken the meatballs
out of the oven as well they're cooked
and looking great so we're gonna add
those into the tomato sauce so I'm just
gonna pop the meatballs into the rest of
the sauce and then I like to stir the
spaghetti through the sauce and the
meatballs you can serve the sauce on top
of the spaghetti if you prefer but I
think this way you just get all those
lovely flavors through the spaghetti
and we'll just add a splash of that
cooking water to loosen the sauce so
just give everything a really nice toast
together with your tongues and then
we're ready to serve it on top but you
can leave it
[Music]